Thirdparty ADRs 7-9 (#548)
supertokens/docs: v2/contribute/decisions/thirdparty/0007-check-for-enabled-recipes.mdx

<DecisionHeader status="proposed" lastUpdate="2022-12-08" created="2022-12-08" deciders={["rishabhpoddar", "sattvikc"]} proposedBy={["sattvikc"]} />

## Context and Problem Statement

Multitenancy recipe now supports enabling and disabling of recipes per tenant. But the recipes are also initialized statically in the Supertokens init.

Should each of the recipe check if the recipe is enabled in the core?

## Considered Options

* Recipes should not check
* Recipes should check

## Decision Outcome

Chosen option: **Recipes should check**, because

* This will ensure consistency in behaviour as per user configuration and SDK behaviour

## Pros and Cons of the Options

### Recipes should not check

Recipes functions/APIs don't check for this flag, and, all the statically configured recipes will function as defined, even if the user has disabled them in the core.

<ArgumentCon> Inconsistent SDK behaviour with the user configuration. For example, a user might be able to create an emailpassword account and use the application, which a particular tenant intends to disable, just because it was statically declared for use with a different tenant. </ArgumentCon>

### Recipes should check

> The recipe functions/APIs check if the recipe is enabled in the core and then continue it's execution

Reviewer: I think only the APIs should check for this and not the functions - we should still allow the dev to call the functions manually for a tenant even if they have not enabled that recipe for that tenant. The reason for this is that it provides more flexibility and also has no security issues. The reason for checking in API is cause those are public facing and there pose a security risk.

## Considered Options

* Recipe should not check
  * API Should not check
  * Functions should not check
* Recipes should check
  * API should check
  * Functions should not check

> Reason why we don't check in the functions because it allows the user to use the functions even if that recipe is not enabled for that tenant, and is not exposed to pose security risk. However, API check would need to be considered as it is publicly exposed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reason why we don't check in the functions is because it allows the user to use the functions even if that recipe is not enabled for that tenant. This makes the dev experience is better. Furthermore, it does not pose any security risk since these recipe functions are not exposed publicly. However in the case of APIs, we need to check if the recipe is enabled for the tenant because they are publicly exposed and want to avoid a situation in which a tenant can sign up, for example, with emailpassword even though that recipe is not enabled for them in the core.
```

### Recipes should not check

> Recipes functions/APIs don't check for this flag, and, all the statically configured recipes will function as defined, even if the user has disabled them in the core.

Reviewer: make it very clear that recipe functions don't check and only APIs check and write down why we decided this.
